(light music) - I'd like to talk about
the goal of this course. What is data science? We hear the term used a lot,
but what does it actually mean? So it's a combination of two words, data which most of us understand, and then science, which is not completely
clear what it means. Okay, so let me give you my take on that. So we're surrounded by data. Data is collected on pads in gas stations, using laptops in industry, temperature is gauged, and then the wireless world around us is giving us data all the time. All of this data is sent to
some kind of central computers. And using that data, what we want to do is data analysis. So that is basically data
collection and analysis. But what is data science? So data science I would say
is rational decision making. So how do we make decisions
using data in a rational way that is useful and profitable? So I would divide it into
two kinds of decisions, big decisions and small decisions. What are big decisions? So one decision might be, is the water in a particular
city safe or unsafe to drink? So that's a decision that is important because we would have to do something if the water is unsafe. Another question that is now very relevant is will increasing the federal
interest rate by 75 points, let's say, curb inflation
in the United States? So that's a prediction
that is super important to the whole economy and the Federal Reserve people
have to decide how to do that or how much to increase
the rate at this point. Even more global decision is about moving away from fossil fuel. So we want to say, will increasing prices
of gas to $8 a gallon, will that reduce global
warming by one degree? So that's a benefit of doing that. And then then the cost of doing that. So we would like to know what is the expected gain
from doing such a thing. So these are all very big decisions involving a lot of people and involving big institutions and making those decisions is based on making, on testing hypotheses and verifying that this is
to the best we know the true, the true state of the world. And that is what we predict
will happen based on this. Then there are many small decisions that we are surrounded by
every day, mostly on the web. So for instance, which ad
are you likely to click on? That is an important thing
for a company like Google to basically identify the ad that you are the most likely to click on so that they can have an ad revenue. A similar one is for Netflix. What movie should Netflix recommend to you as the next movie? And a slightly bigger one, more important would be
which loan applications should a particular bank grant? So what is the, of the many applications that they get, which ones should they grant? So that is a bigger decision but it affects maybe
one person or a family. So you see there's gradations of the different kinds of decisions where the big decisions
are really decisions that would be made by
some kind of set of people that deliberate on the issue. And the second set of decisions is more decisions that can be automated and can be made online without user, without human intervention. So let's look at a particular real example of this kind of situation. So we're going to talk
about the highway traffic in California, and there is Caltrans which is the organization that basically is charged with deciding, with collecting data and making decisions about how to improve the transportation in the United States or in California. And this is basically the problem that they're trying to solve, right? So we've all been there. Traffic jams, you can be
stuck there for hours, they take a lot of time out of the day from people and also they, it costs a lot of gas to have these cars basically
idling on the freeway. So how do we get data so that we can make decisions about this? So the way that Caltrans does it is that there are these, there are these loops on the
highway here, pairs of loops. And these basically can measure
when a car goes over them. It can measure how long the car is there, and how many cars pass,
let's say per minute. So this is a more of a schematic
of how this is working, collecting the data, then sending it to a computer, and all of these computers
through the internet collect the data into a central place. So what we have for each passing, for each detector, we have the flow, so the number of cars per unit time, and then we have the occupancy. So what fraction of the time is a car above a particular loop, okay? And there are many such detectors. There are about 45,000
of them in California. And each one of these detectors
generates a data packet that says what happened during that half a
minute every 30 seconds. So a lot of data that
gets collected together. And then we want to do a
data science on that data. So here comes the science part, okay? So there is actually a
science of traffic flow and the science gives us a model of how does traffic go on a highway. And this is the basic graph here. So we have the density of the cars or how many cars per mile there are, and then here is the speed
that the cars move at, okay? So actually the number of cars per minute that pass the detector, okay? So we want a lot of cars
to pass the detector, that would be ideal flow. And so what we have is that
there is this relationship between the density and the flow, okay? So if we have pretty empty highway, then cars can move freely very, very fast. And that's this beginning part. And then as there are more and more cars, the cars have to go slower and at some point you reach a peak. So this is the rate at which
if cars go at this rate, then you get the maximum
number of cars per minute. So if you go beyond that,
beyond that density, if you have the cars closer together, they start to go significantly slower. And so you have less flow, right? You basically, the cars are
overall moving along less. And so you're getting worse and worse flow until you hit the traffic jam where basically cars are standstill and basically are not moving
and everybody's frustrated. So this is the theory of it. And of course the practice
doesn't look exactly like the theory or the model. The practice looks something like this. So here we have one set of measurements and then we here we have
another set of measurements. So it is somewhat reminiscent of here we have the peak around here and once we have this representation we can start to do some
kind of rational decisions like how many cars would, what density of cars can
this highway withstand, beyond that it'll start to
be non-productive, right? So we want to basically be
as much as possible here but without getting into here, right? And definitely we don't want to get down all the way down here. So data science at its
heart is taking the science, what people know about a
particular process or phenomenon. And we take data that we measured and we basically combine the data to basically tell us whether
the data fits the model and what are the parameters of the model that would make this fit good. And then once we have those parameters we can go and start to make decisions. So what decisions are
we going to try to make? Again, the big decisions are things like what
kind of changes we need to make to a highway. So maybe we kind of
change a particular place to have a different kind of intersection or we might just make a smaller change which is to change the
distribution of the lanes, right? So maybe there will be
more lanes in one direction and fewer lanes in another direction. And so each one of these has a cost. If it's a big change like this, it's probably in the
many millions of dollars. If it's just a change of lanes, it's probably just using some paint, it might be much, much cheaper. And the question is, what
would be more effective, right? And so we can use the model
that we measured to say, oh, actually this little
change that doesn't cost a lot will actually be quite beneficial and this change is very expensive and will not really gain
us a lot of improvement in the traffic flow. So these are the big decisions, millions of dollars are involved. Small decisions are something like this. You've probably all experienced this when you get on the highway, there is this light that tells you that you have to wait until it's green and then you go, okay, and why is that important for the flow? Again, because of what I said, that if there are too many cars at the same place in the highway, basically if the density is too high, then everybody suffers. So it's better to block people from getting on the highway when you get on and then
the traffic can flow. Now of course here the
traffic is pretty busy, so you really need to do that. But if the traffic is
actually pretty empty, so there's no, very few cars,
maybe two in the morning, then you don't need to do that, right? So this is many small decisions that are made moment to moment to decide how much does a car
have to wait before it goes, or how many cars should we let to go on the highway per minute? So this is the kind of small decisions that we would basically do based
on the same kind of models. So to start talking about models, one of the basic things
that you would want to do is you just want to know what
is the traffic on average and how much it varies from average. So how much is the standard deviation? So this is this plot here, this is the average and this
is minus one standard deviation and plus one standard deviation. So you see that there's a lot of variation but the overall shape make sense that early in the morning
there's very little traffic, then it builds up until
like eight in the morning and then this traffic goes, becomes generally higher until 6:00 PM and then it goes down. So this is the average, however, any individual place is not likely to be quite
like the average, right? Because there are different
profiles of the traffic. So how do we get to
understand those profiles? So that's a method called
principle component analysis, which we will go over. And basically what this
tells you is it tells you what are the essentially the profiles that are prevalent in the
way that the traffic flows. And so what we have here
is that blue line here is basically the AM traffic jam. And what we have here is we
have the PM traffic jam, okay? And if you just think
about it for a minute, it makes a lot of sense because some directions of the highway are busy in the morning, some directions are busy in the afternoon, this might not be the case always. Some places have traffic jams both in the morning and in the afternoon but it's quite typical for
highways in California. So I showed you an example of what it is, what is data science, and how you make big and
small decisions based on it. So what are the
ingredients of data science that I would like to put in your mind? First one is math. So in order to build these models and relate these models to data, you need some solid foundation in math, mostly linear algebra,
probability and statistics. Then you need to learn about
machine learning algorithms. So there are algorithms that are based on this
probability and statistics and let you basically take data and build flexible models of this data. Then all of that becomes at the end software development, right? If you want to actually do it at scale and maybe packages that are
ready are not good enough for your specific problem, you need to essentially
know how to write software and how to develop a program software that would be useful for many people. And then there is this whole other area which is domain knowledge. So as I said, in the highway case, there is the science of traffic flow. So this is a well-established science that really understands how the main parameters of traffic behave. So because it is so specific
to individual things, it is kind of hard to really teach it in any individual course, right? So it's not so much something
that you would learn here, you will get some examples. It is more something that when you get employed
as a data scientist, you will learn how this particular, the science of that
particular type of company or institution. So there's various different domains and it really takes a long
time to acquire the knowledge of a particular domain in depth, right? So if you really want to be an independent data analysis person or data science person, you need to devote to that area a significant amount of time. And so we will only touch
on particular small examples like this traffic and like the
weather and things like that. So that's more or less what
I would say is data science. This is the introduction
to what you're going to do. And next time we're going
to basically start digging into the details. Okay, so I'll see you next time.