(upbeat music) (transition swooshing) - [Instructor] Hi, we have
looked at the coefficients of the principle components, the three top coefficients
as a function of time, how they change from time
to time, from year to year. Now, we want to look at how
they change from place to place. So we need some kind of mapping
device in order to do that. And there is a very nice mapping tool that you can use in Jupyter Notebooks, it's called ipyLeaflet. And we'll see how it works. So we are going to look at New York and the snow depth in New York. And first, we're going
to do the same steps as we did before. We are going to compute
spectral decomposition for the stations in New York. And that's what we are doing here. There are many cells
here that I'm skipping. If you want to see all of the details, I highly recommend that you
study the notebook by yourself. So now we're going to compute the count and the average of the
coefficient for each station. Okay, so we have these stations. And what we want to know is what's the average
coefficient across time? Because we are not looking at time, we're looking at average for all time. And how many measurements there were because we want to know if
there were a lot of measurements for this place or fewer, okay? And now, we're going to put that on a map. So each circle is going to
be centered on a station. The area of the circle
corresponds to the number of years that that snow depth was measured, and the color corresponds
to the coefficient. So it corresponds to the
coefficients being small or high. So here is our map. And the one nice thing about it is that it's an interactive map. So we can basically zoom
in as much as we want, and we can pan and look
at different parts. And the map underneath it becomes
as detailed as we want it, very much like Google Maps. And so what do we see? If we look a little bit out, we see that in most of New York, especially the south part, there is very little
snow, relatively speaking. But if you go north, there is these mountains
called the Adirondacks, and those mountains get a
significant amount of snow. Some location get really
quite a lot of snow and some just intermediate. So the red one is for very
high values of the coefficient, and then the blue are for low ones, and yellow are intermediate. So we immediately get a sense of how the snow is distributed. There is this mountain area here that doesn't actually
have that many stations, but the stations that you have here record the fact that there is more snow. And indeed this is skiing area. Okay, so that's the ipyLeaflet. And it's a convenient tool
for doing many things. You might want to study it
for your future reference. So now, we can actually ask questions about how do the coefficients relate to properties of the location, okay? So one is to say is coef_1,
which is the amount of snow, does it relate to the height? And we see that when we do a scatterplot, here we have the average of coef_1, and here we have a elevation. There is some relationship. So the places with more snow
tend to be higher elevation, but it's not very strong. And indeed, the elevations
that you have in New York are not very big. And they go up to like 600,
I'm not sure what they are. Feet or meters, must be meters. So in most of the places, all of the elevations get
very little snow, okay? So this is what you see from this scatter. Another way, another thing to ask is, how is coef_1 related to latitude? And you see again, most of the places have zero gain, but there is a tendency with latitude to get more and more
height, more and more snow. There is a lot of snow. And here, there's like negative. This is basically when
the snow is almost zero. Now, that is interesting, but now the question is, which of these are the real influencers, the latitude or the elevation? How are latitude and elevation related? And you see that latitude and elevation are strongly related. So you have that as
the latitude decreases, the elevation increases, okay? This is all of this major part. And so that's actually a
relationship that is stronger than the relationship between the latitude and the amount of snow. So this is the kind of
thing that we can do. We can now study the relationship between the coefficients that we have, and different things that
have to do with the location, or different things that
have to do with time, okay? So these are both the
temporal aspect of our system and the spatial aspect. So to summarize, using ipyLeaflet is a powerful tool that
might be of use to you in other places. We saw that in New York state, most of the snow accumulation
is in the Adirondacks. And snow accumulation
increases with elevation, but the relationship is weak. It's not really a strong elevation. Locations with elevation 400 to 600 meters have widely varying accumulation of snow. 400 and 600 meters is
really not very high places. The altitude is not
really very significant. So that's it. This is the part where we analyze visually relationship to space
and relationship to time. And next, we're going to do
the same kind of analysis, but we're going to do it
in a more quantitative way. I'll see you next time.