--- start{11.1_lec.pdf} ---
Decision trees
   Decision Trees / Discrete Features

Where and when do you have fun?
                                            Location

                                  Prison




                                                             S
                                                  Beach
   Season    Location    Fun?




                                                          Slo ki
   summer     prison      -1




                                                             p e
                                    -1                              +1
   summer     beach       +1
                                                 Season

   Winter    ski-slope    +1




                                                     er
                                                     Sum
                                           er
                                            nt



                                                           m
                                         Wi
   Winter     beach       -1

                                      -1                       +1
Decision Trees / Continuous Features
       Will bomb explode?

Mass       Temperature   explosion        Mass>8
 1            100           -1




                                               yes
                                     no
3.4           945           -1
                                     -1     Temperature>500
 10            32           -1




                                                     yes
                                              no
11.5          1202          +1
                                             -1        +1
                 Decision Trees




                        Y
     X>3
                                     +1


           yes
no

                        5
-1         Y>5              -1

                 yes
     no



                                     -1
     -1            +1
                                          X
                                 3
             Decision trees
•   Popular because very flexible and easy to
    interpret.

•   Learning a decision tree = finding a tree with
    small error on the training set.

    1. Start with the root node.

    2. At each step split one of the leaves

    3. Repeat until a termination criterion.
         Which node to split?
•       We want the children to be more “pure” than the
        parent.

•       Example:

    •    Parent node is 50%+, 50%-.

    •    Child nodes are (90%+,10%-),(10%+,90%-)

•       How can we quantify improvement in purity?
    Naive approach: minimize
          training error
•       A good case

•       Parent node is 55%+, 45%-.

    •    Predict + always: Error = 45%

•       Child nodes are (90%+,10%-),(10%+,90%-)

    •    Predict + on left, - on right: Error = 10%

•       Clear Improvement
    Naive approach: minimize
          training error
•       A bad case

•       Parent node is 80%+, 20%-.

    •    Predict + always: Error = 20%

•       Child nodes are (90%+,10%-),(70%+,30%-)

    •    Predict + always: Error = 20%

•       No improvement in training error!
The problem with
classification error
    (pictorially)
Fixing the problem
 Any strictly concave
function can be used
Which of the following is
   strictly concave?
       Decision tree learning
             algorithm
•   Learning a decision tree = finding a tree with
    small error on the training set.

    1. Start with the root node.

    2. At each step split one of the leaves

    3. Repeat until a termination criterion.

    4. Next, How do we search for a splitting rule.
             The splitting step
•       Given: current tree.

•       For each leaf and each feature,

    •    find all possible splitting rules (finite because data
         is finite).

    •    compute reduction in entropy

•       find leaf X feature X split rule the minimizes entropy.

•       Add selected rule to split selected leaf.
           Enumerating splitting
•                            rules
        If feature has a fixed, small, number of values.
        then either:

    •    Split on all values (Location is beach/prison/ski-
         slope)

    •    or Split on equality to one value (location = beach)

•       If feature is continuous (temperature) then either:

    •    Sort records by feature value and search for best
         split.

    •    or split on parcentiles: 1%,2%,….,99%
Splitting on percentiles
•   Suppose data is in an RDD with 100 million examples.

•   sorting according to each feature value is very expensive.

•   Instead: use Sample(false,0.00001).collect() to get a sample of
    about 10,000 examples.

•   sort the sample (small, sort in head node).

•   pick examples at location 100,200,… as boundaries. Call those
    feature values T1,T2,T3,… ,T99

•   Broadcast boundaries to all partitions.

•   Each partition computes it’s contribution to
                   Summary
•   The splitting criteria is a strictly concave function
    that bounds the training error.

•   The search for a splitting rule tests all possible splits
    of current tree.

•   When the feature is continuous and the data large -
    split on percentiles instead of splitting on each
    example.

•   Next, Performance on the test set and reducing
    over-fitting .
         Trees are unstable
•   Trees are very flexible.

•   A “fully grown” tree is one where all leaves are “pure”, i.e. each leaf
    contains all + labeled examples or all - labeled examples.

•   A fully grown tree has training error zero.

•   If the tree is large and the data is limited, the test error of the tree
    is likely to be high = the tree overfits the data.

•   Statisticians say that trees are “high variance” or “unstable”
    Pruning Trees
•
                               Bagging Trees
•   Bagging, invented by Leo Breiman in the 90s, is a
    different way to reduce the variance of trees.

•   Instead of pruning the tree, we generate many
    trees, using randomly selected subsets of the
    training data.

•   We predict using the majority vote over the trees.

•   Related to RANDOM FORESTS and to Boosted
    Trees/XGBoost. Will describe next.
                     Summary
•       Decision trees are a simple and intuitive representation.

•       Fully grown trees over-fit the data.

•       Two ways to reduce over-fitting:

    •    Pruning: remove leaves to make the tree smaller.

    •    Bagging, Boosting: take the majority vote over many
         trees.
Are methods based on decision tree still relevant
     at the age of Deep Neural Networks?
      Kaggle Survey of most popular learning algorithms
                           (2020)

--- end {11.1_lec.pdf} ---
--- start{11.1_transcript.txt} ---
(upbeat music) - [Instructor] Hi, we're
going to start talking about classification machine
learning mechanisms. So, different ways of
developing classifiers. So, we're going to start
with one of the simplest and most commonly used,
which is decision trees. So, here is an example of a decision tree. Let's say the thing that we're trying to classify is fun versus not fun. So, this is the data that we have. We have the season, summer or winter. And we have the location, which can be prison or beach or ski slope. So, and this is the data that we have. We want to fit a classification
rule to this data. So, we start, maybe, with
checking the location. So, we say, what is the
effect of the location? The location can be
prison, beach or ski slope. And then, if it's prison, it's
definitely going to be bad. If it's the beach, if it's a ski slope, it's always going to be good. But if it's the beach,
maybe we're not so sure. If it's the beach, it can be good or bad because of what we see here or here. So, for the beach, we need
to also check the season. So, we check the season. And if the season is winter, it's not fun. And if it's summer, it is fun. So, now we have a classification rule that captures all of this data and hopefully generalizes to new data. So, this is when the features that we're looking at
are discrete features. So, they can only take
one of a few values. Here, minus one or plus one for the fun. Location is prison, beach or ski slope. And season is summer or winter. Let's look at something more. That is decision trees when
you have continuous features. So, the question here is,
will the bomb explode? Let's see what we know about the bomb. We have the mass of the bomb. So, 1, 3.4, 10 or 11.5 pounds, let's say. And then temperature is
100, 945, 32 or 1202. So, of course, we can
treat these as discrete. But then we will have, for each example, it will fit only one discrete possibility. So, that's not going to be a small, succinct rule that will generalize well. So, we want a rule that will be a good rule for continuous variables. And so, let's say the first
thing that we check is the mass, whether the mass is larger than 8 or not. If the mass is smaller than 8, then no, because both of these, you have minus 1. If it is larger than 8, then we need to check the temperature. Right, so then if it's larger
than 8, it's this or this. And we need to see if the
temperature is larger than, let's say, 500. Then we can predict yes or no, whether it will explode or not. Okay, so the only difference
that is here is that here we're using comparators rather than
saying equal or not equal. And that is what gives us the
ability to, in a succinct way, describe, use the features
that are continuous. So, one way to visualize decision trees, if you have just two variables, which is not a common case, but it's a case that helps the intuition, is that you split your xy
plane according to the rule. so if this is x larger than 3, then this first rule is x
larger than 3 or smaller than 3. Here is, the yes is
here, and the no is here. So, what we get is that
at not larger than 3, we get minus 1. And at larger than 3, now
we check y, y larger than 5. So, this is when y larger than 5, and now we have minus 1 or plus 1. So, what we have here is a
way of partitioning the plane, or in general, Euclidean space, using what is called
axis parallel hyperplane. So, we're separating things only according to inequality with one of the variables. So, why are decision trees so popular? One of the reasons is that
they're very flexible. They can be used to model
many different things, and they're easy to interpret. So, you can put a small
decision tree on a slide and show it to even people that don't know much about machine learning, and they will make sense of it. Learning a decision tree is finding a tree with small error on the training set, and the way that we do it is that we build incrementally from the root node. And at each step, we have
a tree with some leaves, and we decide on which leaf
to split and how to split it. And we repeat until we reach
some termination criteria. Okay. So, how do we decide which node to split? So, we want the children to
be more pure than the parent. If the parent was 30% plus and 70% minus, we would prefer that the child, one child, will be maybe 95% plus, and the other child will
be 50% or 60% minus. So, now they are more pure, and they have more information
to tell us about the label. So, for example, suppose
the parent is 50-50%, and the child are 90-10 and 10-90. So, in this case, it's clear
that this is a good split, because now on each side we
know the actual label with 90%, while before we knew only with 50%. So, how can we quantify
this improvement in purity? Now we need some quantity
to measure the purity so that we can basically
write an algorithm for deciding which leaf to split. So, a naive approach might say you just want to minimize the
training error, right? So, in the case 50-50 to 90-10, 10-90, we moved from error of
50% to error of 10%, which is clearly an improvement. But it doesn't always work. Like, in this case here, it will work. So, parent node is 55 plus 45 minus, then predict plus always, and error is 45. Child nodes are 90-10, 10-90, and so they predict plus on
left and minus on the right, and the error is 10%. So, in this case, just looking at the training
error of the larger tree gives us a good sense that
this is an improvement. But here is a case that
there isn't improvement. So, the parent node,
let's say, is 80% and 20%, and you always predict
plus, so the error is 20%. And the child nodes are
now 90%, 10%, and 70%, 30%. So, 90% on the plus and 70% of the plus. So, what does that mean? It means that in either
leaf, we will predict plus. And what is the error now? It's still 20%. So, the error was 20%. The old error was 20%. So, it seems like we didn't
make any improvement. In fact, we did make some improvement. Like, this one is more accurate, more higher percent of plus, and this has lower percent of plus, but it's not enough to
improve the training error. So, one way to think about this is to plot the probability
of plus as the axis here, from 0 to 1, and plot the error, the training error, as number from 0 to 0.5 here. The error cannot be more than 0.5 because you always go with a heavy side. So, it's at most 50%. Here, we have just what
the training error is for using the training error. And so, what we see is that
if we use a training error and we have two things that
are on the same side of 50%, then we don't really get an
improvement in the performance. But what we can do is we
can use another measure, instead of measuring error p, which is the minimum of p and 1 minus p, we measure the entropy of p. And that is this green
line that we have here. So, if we use the green line, then we get an improvement, even though they are
both on the same side. So, this point here is
above the linear combination of the two endpoints. So, if we use entropy
instead of training error, that basically gives us a way to improve, even if the training
error does not improve. And there are different
functions like that that have been used. So, what you need is a
function that is strictly concave and larger than the... it's an upper bound on the training error, so that if you minimize this function, one of these functions, you also minimize the training error, but because they are concave, they don't suffer from this problem of not seeing any improvement. And so, three that are
commonly used are the entropy that we talked about, the circle, which has some optimality properties, and then the Gini index, which
is simply p times 1 minus p. And different software
uses different ones, and it does not seem in general that there is a big difference between using different
functions like that. So, the question here is, which function of these
functions is strictly concave? So, this red function
is clearly not, right? This blue function seems strictly concave, but it has this straight
line here, so it's not. Only the green line, the green
curve, is strictly concave. Okay, so how does the decision
tree learning algorithm work? We have a measure that lets us measure how much of an improvement adding a particular split to
a leaf in the tree gives us. So, learning a decision tree means finding a tree with small
error on the training set. You start with a root node. At each node, at each step, you split one of the leaves, so you choose one of the leaves to split, and then you repeat until
a termination criteria. Okay, so which one do you split? Okay, so what you basically do in general is that you do a greedy search. You look at all possible new splits, and you measure the improvement due to it, and you just take the best one. So, you have the current tree. For each leaf and each feature, you find all possible splitting rules. So, you basically take each feature and split according to that feature, and then you do that
specifically for each leaf and for each feature. So, that seems like it
might take a long time, but in fact, this is
a very efficient thing that can be done very quickly, even for pretty large data. Compute reduction in entropy, and find the leaf and the
feature and the split rule that minimizes the entropy, and then you add it. So, how do you enumerate splitting rules? So, if the feature has a
fixed small number of values, then you can either split
on all values, okay, or you can split on equality
to a particular value, right? So, in the location, we
split into three children, but another option is to split just binary for equality to one of the features. In either case, there are
not that many possibilities. If the feature is continuous,
let's say temperature, then you either sort the
records by feature value and search for the best split, or you split on percentiles. So, here we'll come back to
the big data aspect of things. Sorting is a reasonably good approach if you have something like
10,000 or 100,000 examples, but if you have many millions of examples, then that becomes an expensive step, and as a matter of fact, you don't really care to split
after each possible value. It's quite enough to have 100 splits at the 100 percentile points. So, what does that mean? So, suppose there is data in an RDD with 100 million examples. Sorting is very expensive. It's a shuffle. You need to move data
from between workers. Instead, you take a sample, okay, so some small percentage, to get a sample of about 10,000 examples from all of your data, and based on that, you sort the sample and you select the thresholds
that you would want to use in order to split on each feature. So, for each feature,
you generate 100 values, and then you broadcast these 100 values to all of the workers. So, each partition
computes its contribution to this probability of plus one given between threshold
one and threshold two. If you get these 101 numbers, then you can, at the head
node, quickly compute the entropy for each
one of the thresholds. So, to summarize, the splitting criteria is
a strictly concave function that bounds the training error. The search for splitting rule tests all possible splits of the current tree, and when the feature is
continuous, the data is large, we split on percentiles instead of splitting on each example. Next, we're going to talk
about the performance on the test data and reducing overfitting. I'll see you soon.
--- end {11.1_transcript.txt} ---
--- start{11.2_lec.pdf} ---
Ensembles
                What are ensembles
• Ensembles are predictors defined as an average/vote
  over “base” or “weak” predictors.
• Weak learner is faced with a variant of the original
  prediction problem.
• Ensembles come in two main flavors:
 • Boosting based Ensembles
 • Bootstrap based Ensembles.
An Ensemble of trees
                       +1
                         /-1
                        Stability of statistics
• Quantities we want to estimate: mean, std, median, min, max
• Stable estimator: varies little from sample to sample.
• Median is the most stable, mean is less stable, std still less.
• The variation of max depends on the distribution.
• Direct estimation of stability: use several independent datasets. (requires a lot of
   data).

                 p(x)                      p(x)
                             max                       max
                            unstable                  stable


                                          x                         x
                           The Bootstrap
• A method for estimating out-of-sample variation
• Instead of collecting truly independent samples, we create semi-independent
  samples from the given sample.
• S : Original sample of size N.
• Bootstrap sample: select N examples from S independently at random with
  replacement.
• Use bootstrap samples as if they were independent samples.
            p(x)                    p(x)
                        max                    max
                       unstable               stable


                                   x                        x
1990
       Bagging = bootstrap
          aggregation
• Decision trees have high data variation.
 • i.e. the generated tree is sensitive to small
    changes in the training set.
• To reduce the variation, we take a majority vote
   over several runs, each using an independent
   random resample of the training data.
• Bootstrap: Running an algorithm over random
   resampling.
• Trees can be learned in parallel
• The result is a reduction in variation with no
   increase in the bias.
            Random Forests
• Based on bagging trees.
• Additional randomization: before choosing
   which leaf to split and how, choose a random
   subset of the features.
• Decreases the correlation between different
   trees.
• Speeds up the learning process.
• All trees get equal weight (1.0)
• All trees can be learned in parallel.
  Gradient Tree Boosting

• The trees are trained sequentially, one after the
  other.
• Each tree is trained using a weighted training
  set. The weights represent the gradient of the
  loss function.
• Each tree receives a different weight.
• Stochastic gradient boosting: use random
  resampling of the training set a.k.a. Bagging.
              Summary


• Ensemble learning in Spark ML
• Bagging = Bootstrap Aggregation
• Random Forests
• Boosted Gradient trees.

--- end {11.2_lec.pdf} ---
--- start{11.2_transcript.txt} ---
(bright music) (screen whooshes) - [Instructor] Hi. So we have
talked about decision trees. Another popular structure for learning that we mentioned are ensembles. So we're going to talk a little
bit more about ensembles. So what are they? Ensembles are predictors defined by an average or a vote over base or weak predictors. The weak learner is faced with a variant of the original problem. So they don't solve
exactly the same problem. They solve a variant. And there are two main flavors. There are other types of ensembles that we won't talk about here, but two main flavors that exist are one is boosting based ensembles that we'll talk about next lecture and bootstrap based ensembles. Okay. So we're going to talk now about bootstrap based ensembles and what they are. So first let's look at an example of an ensemble. So here is an ensemble of trees. So here is the first tree in the ensemble. And here is the second tree. And here is the third tree. Okay? So they're all solutions for the same classification problem. And here's the fourth one. And then what we do to
generate our own prediction is take a weighted combination of the ensemble members
or of the weak trees. Okay? So each weak tree
gives us some evidence towards the label, and
we combine them together to get something more accurate. And then after we take the
sum, we take a threshold so that we get the actual
prediction, plus one or minus one. Okay. So the idea of
bootstrapped prediction is an idea that relates to
stability of statistics. So we might want to
estimate various quantities in statistics such as the
mean, the standard deviation, median, minimum, or maximum. Okay? And also we might want to estimate what is the label of a particular example. So that's also an estimation problem, can be seen as an estimation problem. So a stable estimator is
one that varies little from sample to sample, right? So we have some true distribution but what we see is a sample from it. So we want the dependence on the particular sample to be small, to be as small as possible so
that we capture the essence of what's in the distribution
rather than the fluctuation according to the particular examples. Okay? So median is one of
the most stable estimates. And mean is less stable. And standard deviation
is even less stable. The stability of maximum is interesting because it depends on
the actual distribution. Some distribution, it is very stable. Some distribution, it's not. So let's look at these two examples. In this case, the maximum is unstable. Why I'm saying that? Because when we take a sample, we'll have a few samples here
and a lot of samples here. Okay? And so the sample here, the fact that there's
only a few of them means that from sample to sample, from each time we take a sample of size N, we get a different estimate. On the other hand, if we
take this distribution, we'll get a lot of estimates right at the maximum,
then fewer and fewer here. So in this case, when after
we take a small number of examples, we will know
the maximum very accurate. Okay? So the stability of an
estimate is not just a property of what kind of estimate it is, but it's also a property of the distribution that is underlying. So of course, one way that
we can estimate that is we can just take a lot of samples. Instead of just one sample of size N, maybe take 100 samples each of size N and then estimate according
to each one of them and then see how much is the variation. But that requires a lot of data, right? That requires 100 times N examples. So bootstrap is a method that tries to imitate
doing this estimation, but without increasing
the number of examples. So what is the bootstrap? It's a method for estimating
out-of-sample variation. And instead of collecting
truly independent samples, we create semi-independent samples from the one sample that we actually have. And how do we do that? Let's say S is the sample. Then bootstrap sample is
to select N examples from S independently at random with replacement. Okay? So we take the examples
that we have in the data and then in our sample, and then we generate an
artificial sample of the same size by picking examples at random. And it's important to
say with replacement. Had it been without replacement, we'd just get the same sample
again, but with replacement some examples we'd get more than once and some examples we won't get at all. And some examples we would get once. So that means that the samples would vary and we can estimate how
stable is our estimate. Okay, so now you treat them as if they're independent samples. Okay, so this is how you would do it here. You would get let's say the
examples that you got here and then you pick out of them again, let's say with a circle,
I'll denote it like that, this one you pick twice. This one you pick once, this
one will pick once, okay? So because you are going
to pick the top ones with some noise, with some probability
of not picking them up, then you can estimate that the maximum estimator is unstable. So this is a very well-studied
method in statistics. And I mention here the book because I want you to
make note of that book, because it turns out
that in many situations where you're doing
large-scale data analysis, you want to use the bootstrap to help you estimate how stable. Do you have enough data? How stable is the estimation, and so on? So what is bagging? Bagging is short for bootstrap aggregation. Okay? And what it is is
designing decision trees and then combining them, designing them and training
them using bootstrap and then combining them. So decision trees have
high data variation. They're unstable. That means that the
generated tree is sensitive to small changes in the training set. So to reduce the variation, we take a majority vote over several runs, each using independent random
sample of the training data. And then the independent
sample is using bootstrap. Okay? One nice thing about bagging is that the trees are run, trained
on different training sets. So all of the training
can be done in parallel. The result is a reduction in variation with no increase in the bias. Okay? So that's the magical
thing about bagging is that you can decrease the variability and you in general
don't increase the bias. What are random forests? So random forest is an
elaboration on bagging trees. It was developed by Leo Breiman after he developed bagging trees, and is now a very popular
commercial software. And it has more
randomization that it uses. Before choosing which
leaf to split and how, you choose a random
subset of the features. So you don't try to find
the best feature overall but the just the best
feature over a sample. So that increases the variability of the individual trees. And when you average many of these trees, you get better results. So that decreases the correlation
between different trees and speeds up the learning process. All trees get equal weight. That is the same with bagging
and with random forest. All of the trees are equal. Okay, so finally we'll do a short review of gradient tree boosting. We'll go into much more
detail in following slides. And what are gradient tree boosting? The trees in this case
are trained sequentially, not in parallel, but one after the other. Each tree is trained using
a weighted training set. The weight represent the
gradient of the loss function. And each tree receives a different weight. So stochastic gradient boosting use random resampling of the training set as in bagging. Okay? So you can combine
the idea of bootstrap with the idea of boosting and get what is called
stochastic gradient boosting. To summarize, we talked about
ensemble learning in Spark ML. We talked about bagging,
bootstrap aggregation. We talked about random forests, and we started to talk about
boosted gradient trees. We'll talk much more about
that in following videos. I'll see you then.
--- end {11.2_transcript.txt} ---
--- start{11.3_lec.pdf} ---
                               Trees are Unstable
• Trees are very flexible

• A “fully grown” tree is one where all leaves are “pure,” i.e. each
  leaf contains all + labeled examples and all - labeled examples.

• A fully grown tree has training error zero.

• If the tree is large and the data is limited, the test error of the
  tree is likely to be high = the tree overfits the data.

• Statisticians say that trees are “high variance” or “unstable”
                                   Pruning Trees
• One way to make trees more stable is to prune

• Start by building a tree down to training error of zero

• Iteratively remove leaves until the training error is 𝜖 = 1%
                                      Bagging Trees
• Bagging, invented by Leo Breiman in the 90s, is a
  different way to reduce the variance of trees

• Instead of pruning the tree, we generate many
  trees using randomly selected subsets of the
  training data.

• We predict using the majority vote over the trees.

• Related to RANDOM FORESTS and to Boosted
  Trees/XGBoost. Will describe next.
                                        Summary
• Decision trees are a simple and intuitive representation.

• Fully grown trees over-fit the data

• Two ways to reduce over-fitting:

• Pruning trees to make the tree smaller.

• Bagging, Boosting: take the majority vote over many trees.
                                        Summary
• Decision trees are a simple and intuitive representation.

• Fully grown trees over-fit the data

• Two ways to reduce over-fitting:

• Pruning trees to make the tree smaller.

• Bagging, Boosting: take the majority vote over many trees.

--- end {11.3_lec.pdf} ---
--- start{11.3_transcript.txt} ---
(upbeat music) (graphics whooshing) - [Instructor] So we
talked about decision trees and the simple ways in which they can be learned and interpreted. But there is one property
of decision trees that is a significant problem, and that is the trees are unstable. What do I mean by that? They're very flexible. The trees that we build are very flexible and a fully grown tree, where
all the leaves are pure, so basically each leaf has only one label, so you can always create such a tree because you can
always get down to the level that each leaf has only one example in it. Okay, so that means that
the fully grown tree, which has zero error, does not error on the training set. Okay, so you can always build a tree that will be perfect in a sense. However, if the tree is large
and the data is limited, the test error of the
tree, the test error, so running now, using now test
data, is likely to be high, so because the tree over-fits the data. Statisticians say that the trees are high variance or unstable. So basically if you change
a little bit your data you'll get a different tree
and therefore the decisions that the tree makes on new
test examples are unstable. So the first common solution for improving on this over-fitting problem is to do pruning. So pruning is you start by a tree that has error zero
like this complete tree, and then you start chopping off nodes that don't add much to the error, so don't reduce the error by very much. Like if a particular
node reduces the error by 10%, then you don't remove it. But if it reduces the error by just making two training examples correct,
then you might remove it. Okay, so you you remove it like that. And until you get to a
tree that has a error of, let's say, 1%, okay, so you're saying, "I'm not really trusting this 0% error. I'm going to reduce the tree. It's going to on the training
data perform slightly worse. But my hope is that, because of that, it would be more stable and perform better on the test data." Okay, so that's the pruning approach. Another approach that was also developed by Leo Breiman is to do bagging. So what is bagging? In bagging, you generate several trees and you vote with the
majority over these trees. Okay, so you vote with a
majority over these trees. And the trees are slightly different because for each one of them you use a bootstrap sample. Okay, and a bootstrap sample is basically just you take the
training data that you have and you pick new examples
with replacement. So some of the, and you pick the exact
same number of examples. So some of the examples
you'll pick more than once and some of the examples
you won't pick at all. And that creates the
difference between the bags and then you train using that data. So each one of these trees
is a little bit different. And when you want to make a prediction, you just take the sum or the vote over all of these trees and that's your prediction. Okay, so we predict
using the majority vote over these trees and this is related to various methods
including RANDOM FORESTS and Boosting Trees/XGBoost and we are going to describe those next. So to summarize, decision trees are simple and intuitive but fully grown trees
can over-fit the data. There are two main ways
to reduce over-fitting. One is pruning, removing leaves
to make the trees smaller, and the other is bagging or boosting, which is to take a majority
vote over many trees. And that's called an
ensemble method, okay. So boosting or bagging that
take a majority over many trees. Those are called ensemble methods and we'll talk about them soon some more. See you then.
--- end {11.3_transcript.txt} ---
--- start{12.1_lec.pdf} ---
 Generative vs.
 Discriminative
Optimization vs.
  Elimination
            Toy Example
• Computer receives telephone call
• Measures Pitch of voice
• Decides gender of caller

                                      Male
            Human
            Voice




                                     Fe
                                        m
                                       al
                                          e
              Generative modeling



               m




                              m
                ea




                              ea
                   n




                                 n
                   1




                                  2
Probability




                                      var2


                       va
                         r1


                                             Voice Pitch
                  Discriminative approach
No. of mistakes
                         [Vapnik 85]




                                       Voice Pitch
Ill-behaved data


         m




 m
             ea




  ea
                n   2



     n
     1


                        Voice Pitch
       Traditional Statistics vs.
          Machine Learning

                     Machine Learning


                     Estimated           Predictions




                             D eo
Data




                              ec ry
        Statistics   world state          Actions




                               Th
                                isi
                                    on
   Comparison of methodologies

Model       Generative    Discriminative

Goal        Probability   Classification rule
            estimates
Performance Likelihood    Misclassification rate
measure
Mismatch    Outliers      Misclassifications
problems


                                                   7
                  Summary
• Generative models: goal is to explain how data is
  generated.
• Discriminative models: goal is to predict a
  property of the data (such as label)
• Generative models are more accurate when they
  are correct.
• Discriminative models are more robust against
  poor modeling or outliers.

                                                      8
    Confidence vs. Certainty




•
          Generative vs. Discriminative vs.
              Robust discriminative
• Generative: Data is generated by model
• Discriminative: there is a model whose error rate is low.
• Robust discriminative:
  • There are many models whose error rate is small. (the
     good set)
• Easy Examples: most of the good set predicts the same
   way.
•       High Certainty and high confidence:
    •    The sun will rise tomorrow.
    •    This spring quarter will be over in June
    •    There will be new common variant of covid in the coming year.

•       Low certainty but high Confidence:
    •    You go fishing in a new location. You know nothing about the probability
         of catching a a fish: low confidence.
    •    You go fishing for 100 days. You have high confidence that your
         probability of catching a fish is larger than 5%
      More examples of
     high confidence, low
           certainty
•   Poker: deciding whether to raise or fold:
    need to decide correctly more than your
    opponent.
•   Medical Diagnosis: ”In my experience, the
    majority of patients who present symptoms X
    suffer from condition Y”
•   Sport: read the body language of your
    opponent, don’t let your opponent read your
    body language.
Prediction in sports




                       13
    Prediction of spin in table tennis
                                           Backspin
• To respond correctly, we need to
  predict whether the ball has
  backspin or topspin.
• By the time the ball is hit, it is too
  late.
                                           Topspin
• We predict from body posture,
  from experience with individual
  player,…
• Definite action according to
  prediction.
• Prediction has to be correct more
  often than incorrect
                                                      14
Optimization
      vs
 Elimination
               Two approaches to
                    learning


•   Optimization: find the model with the smallest loss on
    the training data.
•   Elimination: use the training data to eliminate the
    models whose error
     Elimination vs.
      Optimization
single parameter model
       Properties of the
     elimination methods
•   Instead of finding a single best model. You
    find a Support SET of acceptable models.
•   When asked to predict, you check the
    predictions of all models in the support set.
•   If there is a clear consensus – you predict
    with confidence
•   If there is no consensus – you output “I don’t
    know” or “low confidence”
  Elimination: Classifier
space and example space
         Confidence in classification


•


                                           X


                                        Classifi
                      Learning
    Training set                          er
                      algorithm
                   Bootstrap Ensemble
                       X



                                  Classifier
                 Learning
Bootstrap
Training   1
         set     algorithm
                                      1



                                  Classifier




                                                     …
                 Learning
Bootstrap
Training   2
         set                          2
                 algorithm
      …




                      Learning        Classifier n
  Training set
  Bootstrap  n
                      algorithm
   Votes      Degrees Of Confidence
No of No of
 +1    -1
  n     0
 …     …
                 Confident positive   Easy positive
 …     ….
 …     ….
 n/2   n/2                             Hard /
                                       I don’t know
 …     ….
 …     ….
 …     ….        Confident negative   Easy negative
  0     n
Confidence Intervals
experiments
          Multi-label classification
•       Example CIFAR100: 100 classes
•       Most common measure of performance: fraction of
        time top score is correct
•       Common Variant: fraction of time correct is among
        the top 5 scores.
•       Alternative: the algorithm outputs a set of labels A
        we consider two measures of performance:
    •    Fraction of time the correct label is in the set.
    •    Distribution of the size of the set.

•       A refinement of the “I don’t know” in the binary case
Easy and hard examples in
   the multilabel case

•   The prediction on easiest examples is a set of size
    one.
•   Larger prediction sets indicates harder examples.
•   Example: distinguishing between dogs and cats is
    easier than distinguishing between subspecies.
•   A prediction set that contains all labels == IDK
            Does IDK matter?

•       Not if
    •    correct prediction = gain of $1,
    •    Incorrect prediction = loss of $1

•       Yes if
    •    IDK = no gain or loss.
    •    Correct prediction = gain of $1
    •    Incorrect prediction = loss of $10

--- end {12.1_lec.pdf} ---
--- start{12.1_transcript.txt} ---
(electronic music) - [Instructor] Hi. We talked about root mean square there and the variety of ways in
which it can be used to model. What I want to do now is
open the scene a little bit and compare root mean squared
error and predictive models and classification models
to generative models, which is the whole other
approach to modeling. So to talk about it let's talk about a simple toy example where a computer receives a telephone call and measures the pitch of
the voice of the caller and then decides on
the gender of the call. Okay, so that's, the
gender is what we're trying to understand, what
we're trying to predict. So there's the caller, makes a call to the
telephone, to the computer, and then either decides that
it's either a male or a female. Okay, so what is the generative
approach to modeling this? The generative approach
says there are two classes, males and females, and we wanna characterize
the distribution of each one. So to do that, we first
measure, we have this data that we collected, and we measure the mean and the variance of the female, of the male class, and then
the mean and the variance of the female class. Okay, so the female
tend to be higher pitch and so we get a higher
mean for the female. And now because we don't know
much about the distribution we say okay, let's assume
the distribution is Gaussian. And so we fit a Gaussian
to the mean and variance of the male, and to the mean
and variance of the female. And now when we have that we can make the optimal decision based on where these two graphs cross. Okay, so this is the what is called the base optimal decision assuming that the data is
really generated by Gaussian. Okay? So that's generative modeling, and it has very good properties when the data is really
generated according to the assumed model, which is a Gaussian in this case. The predictive approach
is quite different. It takes the same data that we had before, but instead of trying to
characterize the statistics of this data, it just tries to find a good
rule based on this data. Okay, so it compares all
of the possible thresholds. We're assuming that the thresholds are the rule that we want and then it plots the number
of mistakes for each threshold. So this is this graph. What we have at each, at each location is for a threshold that goes here, what is the error on the training data or the empirical error? And we also potentially try thresholds where the threshold says
it's lower than something then it's a female, but that rule gets this
error that is pretty high. So we can ignore that case. And now based on these, we decide on one of the
minimum that is the threshold that we're going to use. And in this case, we see
that we have two minimum. And so the question is what do we do then? And the answer is it doesn't matter just choose one of them. So just from that, you
immediately say, well that cannot be optimal, right? That's true. However, it is much more
robust in the following sense. So suppose that we have
data that looks like this. So here we have females
that are higher in pitch that these males, but here are four
people, four measurements that are very high pitched and are mixed both male and female. Okay. So these clearly are outliers, but and we would be happy
to simply be wrong on them, but the problem is that they're going to change our estimates very much. So here is the mean and standard deviation that we get for the male, and then from the female. And the Gaussians that
we collect for them, that we fit for them are these two. The blue line for the male and the red line for the female. And now the threshold is
going to be somewhere here where these graphs cross. And if we look at this threshold, it says anything that is
below is a male, okay. But we're going to be now wrong on all of these female, right. And why are we wrong? Because our assumption
that the data is generated by a Gaussian is wrong. So these few examples
have a very high influence on the means of the estimate. What happens if we do, if we let me clear that. What happens if we do for the same data, we take the discriminative approach? Okay, so in this case, what we have is this is the graph of the minimum of the
errors for each threshold. So we see that these
males and females here have some impact but not a very big impact on what is the minimum. They really, they don't
affect the global minimum. So the global minimum is what we choose and indeed this is a very good threshold. Okay. So what can we say in general? In general, we can say that using the discriminative approach, finding the rule that
has the minimum error on the training data has guarantees of being almost optimal. It's not quite optimal if the data is generated
according to what you assume in the generative case,
but it is much more robust. It doesn't depend on any assumptions about the underlying distribution. Now, if you are an avid statistician and you want to defend using
a model that is generative, you'd say well, if I
used this distribution that allows for a very long tail then I would actually
find the right threshold. And that might be true. The problem is that
finding the right shape of the distribution also takes
significant amount of data. And so the question is, are we going to really study, collect enough data that we can know what is the characteristics
of the distribution? Or are we just going to
use the data that we have to optimize our threshold? So that's really the difference. Okay, so this goes to the late Leo Breiman who had a a nice kind of way of discriminating between
statistics and machine learning. He said in statistics, you take data and you make from it an
estimate of what the world is. And then you use decision
theory to make predictions. But in machine learning,
you just jump over this step and you go directly from data
to predictions and actions. Now, what we also know today is that that is a kind of black box approach and sometimes this black box approach that doesn't relate to anything that we can understand
in nature or in the data is limited, but in principle, it allows you to jump over estimating what the state of the world is and just finding a good prediction rule. Okay, so to distinguish between those, I'm going to distinguish
generative and predictive and I'm going to talk
both about classification, what we talked about here,
and about root mean square, which we talked about a few videos ago. And so the goal here in generative is to get probability
estimates of the distribution. The goal when you're predictive if you're discriminative,
it's classification. So something that tells
you which class the data is and the prediction rule,
which tells you a point in vector space, which is where
the data is estimated to be. The performance measure
here is likelihood. This one is misclassification rate and here it is, root mean square. Okay? And the mismatch problem
here you have outliers if you have a mismatch, meaning that you're using
a model that is not correct and here you just have misclassification or potentially in RMS, large errors, okay. So you have some handle
on what's happening with things that don't fit your model. Okay, so to summarize, generative models the goal is to explain
how data is generated. And in predictive models the goal is to predict the
property such as a label or as a vector that describes the depth of the snow. Generative models are more
accurate when they're correct. Okay, so when you can
find the exact, the type the exact form of the distribution, then generative models are more accurate. On the other hand, predictive models are more
robust against wrong modeling. And finally classification models are more robust against outliers. So they don't really change
their prediction very much. If you have a few outliers with the wrong, with classes that don't
fit the general model, they don't change the best
model of the classification. Okay. So that ends the generative
versus predictive description. And I'll see you the next time.
--- end {12.1_transcript.txt} ---
